# February 2010 to July 2011 Revision

The guide was heavily rewritten in this revision, and there are some significant changes to the Scrum process.

## Tips

"Tips" were completely removed from the guide. These were suggestions for how a team should go about implementing Scrum, but which were not actual requirements of Scrum itself. The guide instead sticks to describing the "framework" of Scrum, distinct from any particular implementation.

## Removal of Required Metrics

The original guide prescribed specific metrics to use: sprint burndown and release burndown, with the possibility of using additional metrics also mentioned. These are replaced with the following suggestion:

> Various trend burndown, burnup and other projective practices have been used to forecast progress. These have proven useful. However, these do not replace the importance of empiricism. In complex environments, what will happen is unknown. Only what has happened may be used for forward-looking decision-making.

Although the guide still requires that the team use metrics of some kind, there are no longer any rules about what they should be.

## Removal of Release Planning Section

It was always rather unclear what the Release Planning section was for or how it fed into Scrum in general. There were no rules or artifacts associated with it.

## New Details on the Scrum Master Role

The section on the role of the Scrum Master has been expanded considerably. In the original guide it's little more than a paragraph. In the revised guide, it's now an expansive section detailing the service a Scrum Master is supposed to perform to various people.

## Clarification on Product Backlog Items

The nature of the Product Backlog has changed slightly. Originally it was

> The requirements for product (sic) being developed by the Scrum team

but now it's

> an ordered list of everything that might be needed in the product and is the single source of requirements for any changes to be made to the product.

This is a bit more open than simply a list of requirements. Note that the following text appears in both versions:

> The Product Backlog lists all features, functions, requirements, enhancements, and fixes that constitute the changes to be made to the product in future releases.

"Fixes" don't sound like requirements in the traditional sense, so this change makes the guide more consistent.

## Greater Flexibility in Sprint Backlog

The Spring Backlog changed more significantly. In the original guide, it is specifically a list of tasks that "can be done in less than one day". In the revision, the word "task" does not occur, and the Sprint Backlog is described vaguely as an "implementation plan". It is still said that Product Backlog items must be decomposed into "units of one day or less".

## Explaining the Implementation Plan

A rather bad addition was made to Sprint Planning.

 > By the end of the Sprint Planning meeting, the Development Team should be able to explain to the Product Owner and Scrum Master how it intends to work as a self-organizing team to accomplish the Sprint Goal and create the anticipated Increment.

It's not clear why the team should be required to explain this in Sprint Planning. Firstly, this contradicts the principle that the implementation plan arises *during* the Sprint, with only the early tasks/units needing to be planned out during Sprint Planning. Secondly, why should a self-managing team have to explain its implementation plan to the Product Owner? The implementation plan exists purely for the benefit of the developers.

## Minor Changes

- "The Team" is now "The Development Team" (neither of which should be confused with "The Scrum Team")
- "Release Goal" is now "Product Goal"
- The wording "improvements may be implemented at any time" has been added to the Sprint Retrospective section, highlighting that you don't have to wait for the retrospective to make improvements.
