# October 2011 to July 2013 Revision

The big change in this revision is the increased prominence of the Sprint Goal.

## Sprint Goal Changes

Firstly, the definition of the Sprint Goal has expanded considerably:

> The Sprint Goal is an objective set for the Sprint that can be met through the implementation of Product Backlog. It provides guidance to the Development Team on why it is building the Increment. It is created during the Sprint Planning meeting. The Sprint Goal gives the Development Team some flexibility regarding the functionality implemented within the Sprint. The selected Product Backlog items deliver one coherent function, which can be the Sprint Goal. The Sprint Goal can be any other coherence that causes the Development Team to work together rather than on separate initiatives.

Previously we just had the point about "flexibility" (or "wiggle-room" in the first version) which was extremely vague. The Sprint Goal has now also been elevated to a central place in the Daily Scrum, as reflected in the new "three questions".

- What did I do yesterday that helped the Development Team meet the Sprint Goal?
- What will I do today to help the Development Team meet the Sprint Goal?
- Do I see any impediment that prevents me or the Development Team from meeting the Sprint Goal?

## Sprint Planning Changes

The next most important change is to Sprint Planning, which is no longer described as two time-boxed meetings. Now there are simply two topics to discuss, and how that is managed is left to the Scrum Team. The importance of the Sprint Goal has been raised here too. Rather than being decided after the Product Backlog items have been chosen, the Sprint Goal and Product Backlog items are now decided together:

> The Product Owner discusses the objective that the Sprint should achieve and the Product Backlog items that, if completed in the Sprint, would achieve the Sprint Goal.

However, a later part of text was not changed:

> After the Development Team forecasts the Product Backlog items it will deliver in the Sprint, the Scrum Team crafts a Sprint Goal.

This was likely an oversight, as the text is revised to fix this in the 2017 revision.

## Sprint Review Changes

The Sprint Review has also changed somewhat. Rather strangely, the claim that the Daily Scrum is not a status meeting has been removed, and added to the Sprint Review instead. Yes, it's worth adding that to the Sprint Review, but are we to assume that the Daily Scrum **is** a status meeting now?

There is also some additional clarification on who attends the Sprint Review, namely "the Scrum Team and key stakeholders invited by the Product Owner", and two new bullet points have been added to the Sprint Review's activities:

- Review of how the marketplace or potential use of the product might have changed what is the most valuable thing to do next; and,
- Review of the timeline, budget, potential capabilities, and marketplace for the next anticipated release of the product.

## Minor Changes

- There is a new Artifact Transparency section, which just reiterates that all the artifacts should be fully transparent.
- There is a new section in the Definition of "Done" saying that what counts as "Done" must be compatible with the organisation's standards.
- Also, the Definition of "Done" should be shared by all people working on the product.
- There is less prescriptivism over the lengths of meetings.
- The offending text about the Development Team having to explain its implementation plan to the Product Owner and Scrum Master has been changed to remove this requirement.
- A few other pieces of unnecessary prescriptivism have been removed.
