# July 2016 to November 2017 Revision

The theme of this revision is making Scrum more applicable to domains outside software. The main addition is the Uses of Scrum section, which describes some of the areas in which Scrum has been used, and underlines that the rest of the guide should not be interpreted in a software-centric way. However, it continues to use the terminology of "develop" and "developer".

## Development Team Changes

There has been an interesting change to one of the bullet points in the Development Team section:

> Scrum recognizes no sub-teams in the Development Team, regardless of particular domains that need to be addressed like testing, architecture, *operations*, or business analysis

"Operations" is an addition, reflecting the frequent and unfortunate division between development teams and operations teams in actual practice.

## Raised Priority of Sprint Goal in Sprint Planning

Under Sprint Planning, this text

> After the Development Team forecasts the Product Backlog items it will deliver in the Sprint, the Scrum Team crafts a Sprint Goal.

has been replaced with this

> During Sprint Planning the Scrum Team also crafts a Sprint Goal.

This removes the last vestige of the idea that Product Backlog items are discussed first, and the Sprint Goal decided afterwards.

## Daily Scrum Changes

The "three questions" are now a suggestion rather than mandatory, and the Development Team now have complete control over how the meeting is structured. We are also told that the purpose of the meeting is that is "optimizes team collaboration and performance."

## Minor Changes

The following is added to the description of Product Backlog items:

> Product Backlog items often include test descriptions that will prove its completeness when “Done.”

There is a new rule about how Sprint Backlogs are formed:

> To ensure continuous improvement, it includes at least one high priority process improvement identified in the previous Retrospective meeting.

This shows that Sprint Backlog items do not have to be directly related Product Backlog items. Although this could be said to have always been the case (because the Sprint Backlog is an "implementation plan" completely at the discretion of the Development Team) the wording of the Sprint Planning section has always suggested otherwise.

There is an important addition to the definition of an increment:

> An increment is a body of inspectable, done work that supports empiricism at the end of the Sprint. The increment is a step toward a vision or goal.

Increments must always be inspectable (because they are inspected in the Sprint Review) but now this is part of the definition of an increment.
